How have my bad habits become a crutch I lean on? What stories do I need to let go of so I can walk freely? - James Clear
You’re capable of exercising, but are you making the time? You’re capable of writing, but are you making the time? You’re capable of reading, but are you making the time? - James Clear
If you never copy best practices, you’ll have to repeat all the mistakes yourself. If you only copy best practices, you’ll always be one step behind the leaders. - James Clear
A brief guide to improvement: Research. Iterate. Repeat.
Explore widely and see what is possible. - James Clear
Being underestimated is a gift. You don’t have to find motivation. - James Clear
Nothing is more desirable than to be released from an affliction, but nothing is more frightening than to be divested of a crutch. - James Baldwin
It doesn’t get any less scary. All that happens is that you have less life left. It helps if you do your falling early, and it really helps if you do your reaching early. - Mary HK Choi
'I rarely have good ideas': To overcome this limitation, I think about one topic for an unreasonable amount of time. Then, I revise, revise, revise until only the best stuff remains. It’s slow, but it works. You can either be a genius or you can be patient.
You can attract luck simply by sharing your work publicly.
Once I knew what I wanted, I turned it into action steps.
A ship is safe in harbor, but that is not what ships are built for. - John Shedd
Holding on to anger is like grasping a hot coal with the intent of throwing it at someone else — you are the one who gets burned.
What do I actually want?
Rome wasn’t built in a day, but they were laying bricks every hour. You don’t have to do it all today. Just lay a brick. - James Clear
School requires you to learn about things after the answer has already been decided.
Life requires you to learn about things while the answer is in the process of being decided.
Clarity is the elimination of mental clutter. Agility is the elimination of physical clutter. Tranquility is the elimination of spiritual clutter.
How are you complicit in creating the conditions you say you don’t want?
Meditating once is common. Meditating daily is rare. Exercising today is simple. Training every week is simply remarkable. Writing one essay rarely matters. Write every day and you’re practically a hero. Unheroic days can make for heroic decades.
Friendly, but persistent.
Take one small step. Move the body first and the mind will follow.
What are my actions moving me closer to?
The sooner you make a choice, the sooner you can make an adjustment.
Books can let you chew on an idea without social risk.
What is at first small is often extremely large in the end. And so it happens that whoever deviates only a little from truth in the beginning is led farther and farther afield in the sequel, and to errors which are a thousand times as large. - Franz Brentano
What 6-month period of your life was the most energizing and fun? What can you learn from your answer?
New goals don’t deliver new results. New lifestyles do. And a lifestyle is a process, not an outcome. For this reason, your energy should go into building better habits, not chasing better results. - James Clear
Attention is the oxygen of conflict. When you fight a problem, you breathe life into it. When you starve a problem of your attention, you suffocate it.
What could be improved? What could be removed?
Does the amount of attention I’m giving this match its importance?
Whenever you are stuck searching for the optimal plan, remember: Getting started changes everything.
Fear of failure is higher when you’re not working on the problem. If you are taking action, you are less worried about failure because you realize you can influence the outcome.
Maintain a margin of safety—even when it’s going well. Rich people go bankrupt chasing even more wealth. Fit people get injured chasing personal records. Productive people become ineffective taking on too many projects. Don’t let your ambition ruin your position.
How am I living with the results of other people’s thinking?
Don’t rush, but don’t wait. Thoughtful action.
If you never fail, you’re only trying things that are too easy and playing far below your level. If you can’t remember any time in the last six months when you failed you aren’t trying to do difficult enough things.
Deep listening is an act of surrender. We risk being changed by what we hear. - Valarie Kaur
What do I keep coming back to? What is that telling me?
The desire to improve does not have to come from a place of self-loathing.
The teacher learns more than the student. The author learns more than the reader. The speaker learns more than the attendee. The way to learn is by doing.
How can I create an environment that will naturally bring about my desired change?
How did you accomplish that? — Same as everything else. Gradually, then all at once.
If I keep doing what I am about to do today for the next five years, will I end up with more of what I want or less of what I want?
Books for mindset. Quiet time to think for strategy. Conversations with successful peers for tactics.